 Welcome to Spirited Discussion, a Spirit Island podcast.
I believe a wise Muppet once said, ergy-jergy, smergy-jergy.
Today, we are talking about Sweden.
How you doing, Thomas?
I'm doing really well.
That was ridiculous, Alex.
What was that?
That was the Swedish chef from the Muppets.
Oh, no.
I wish I knew what that was.
Oh, no.
All right.
Well, that meant nothing.
I'm holding back the laughter.
Oh.
 Okay, here's one for you.
The kingdom of red gummy fish.
No?
Swedish fish?
Yeah, I love Swedish fish.
I picked that up.
I'm still on the... I don't know what you did.
It's beautiful.
Hergy-dergy-smergy-ergy.
 It's a wonderful, charming puppet that cooks like a maniac and just speaks Swedish gibberish.
That's awesome.
Okay.
Well, anyway, this is a Spirit Island podcast.
How are you doing other than confused?
I'm doing really well.
I spent my afternoon playing some Factorio, and now I'm here.
Doing great.
All right.
 That's awesome.
I'm not surprised at the overlap between people that like factory games and people
that like board games.
They tickle the same little parts of my brain.
Mm-hmm.
Numbers go up.
Logistics happen.
Yeah.
Figuring out optimization.
It's all there, really.
You pull out the spreadsheet, do some math.
Mm-hmm.
Yep.
Yep.
All right.
So today we are talking about our very first adversary on the podcast.
It took us over 25 episodes, but we're finally here.
 Not like in a vacuum for each level, like a whole adversary, a whole adversary.
I mean,
I would argue adversaries have come up in just about every episode of this podcast
in one way or another.
They're pretty important.
Yeah,
how they interact with the spirits,
how they interact with,
like,
various game elements,
how the rules interact in a vacuum.
We've talked about them,
but,
like,
this is the first time we're sitting down and saying,
no,
this is Sweden's time.
No one else gets the spotlight this episode, just Sweden.
Yeah, hopefully.
 Yeah.
So yeah,
the way this is going to work,
we're just going to kind of talk about the adversary card,
level by level.
And then we'll maybe go from there and talk about some other stuff related to this adversary.
So let's start with the additional loss condition.
Thomas, do you want to read off what the additional loss condition for Sweden is?
Yeah.
None.
Did I do it right?
Yeah, no, I think that's right.
They might have updated that in a newer printing of the game to say...
 Nothing.
But so, you know, that's a lie.
Additional loss condition.
It says like blight, like for real, though.
 Mm.
So this adversary and Brandenburg Prussia are the two that have no additional loss conditions.
But as you said,
that's not really true because their additional loss conditions are basically just
pushing the normal loss conditions harder.
In BP's case, it's time, right, with the invader deck.
And in Sweden's case, yeah, it's blight.
It's extra super special blight.
They practically...
 double blight.
Like, every time that they would blight, they double blight.
Sometimes it's only a 50% increase, but they're putting out blight.
Yeah,
and this adversary is one of,
like,
one of the most focused adversaries in the entire game in that just about
everything it does is focused on making the blight worse for you.
Making it more likely that there's gonna be blight.
Making more blight come down more frequently.
Just, you know, everything is very blight-focused.
 Yeah, even past that, it's just Ravage-centric.
If we look at the base adversaries,
you have England that's really good at building,
and BP's really good at exploring conceptually.
They're just faster at it, and these guys are just really good at Ravaging.
Very good at doing the Ravage.
They do the Ravage.
So,
its Stage 2 escalation is swayed by the invaders,
which is after invaders explore into each land this phase...
 If that land has at least as many invaders as Dahan, replace one Dahan with one town.
This escalation is crazy.
Pain in the neck.
Yeah, so it's like, on one side of it, it is the weakest stage 2 escalation.
Because it has the potential to do nothing.
 And it frequently does.
Like, you know it's coming, so you set the board up so that it just doesn't do anything.
And on the other side, when it happens, it is the worst stage two escalation, like, bar none.
Yeah.
If this had just said, add a town, right, to the land, that would be one thing.
But the fact that you'd have to replace the Dahan if this triggers is bad.
It's very bad.
Mm-hmm.
 As you said, it is play-aroundable to some degree.
The first stage 2 card that comes up,
if it has an Escalation on it,
there's not really a lot you can do.
I guess you could be smart and try to bunch all your Dahan up on one land,
and that way...
And you're frequently bunching up the Dahan in different ways anyways.
So this is just like, take it to the next step and gamble on a 1 and 4.
Hopefully you don't move on to the situation.
 But when it happens, it feels so crazy.
Yeah.
Yeah, and there's a lot of spirits that specifically just really don't want this to happen.
Your thunder speakers, your eyes, your river with
 That one aspect that I'm blanking on the name.
Travel.
Travel.
Yeah, your travel rivers.
It's like spirits that rely on the Dahan are like, oh no, please don't do this.
And especially because this can happen very fast.
This escalation comes up fast.
There's a level of this as well that speeds up the invader deck.
And yeah, that stinks to lose Dahan early.
You said fast.
And that's a good keyword through all of Sweden.
 Think about the early pressure that they provide and how they just don't let up.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, very consistent.
And then as stage two escalation goes on,
right,
once you've pulled a stage two card,
aside from ocean,
you know that you could theoretically bundle your Dahan into the lands that have
already been explored because that land can't come up again.
 Making a precinct.
Right.
But,
I mean,
that's a lot easier said than done,
mobilizing all of the Dahan to the wetlands just because the wetlands have come up
is...
It's hard.
It's hard.
And,
I mean,
you do that,
and you could make sure that there's more Dahan than invaders,
but then...
Like,
in every land,
but then,
uh-oh,
an event comes up that puts an extra town down somewhere you don't want an extra
town.
Plus, you gotta remember that there's gonna be a build before this happens.
So, it's... Yeah, I find it interesting.
This is the only place on the card that mentions the Han at all.
And I wonder if it is...
 Like, part of me kind of feels like maybe this is done to somewhat randomize this.
Instead of having it just say,
a town comes down all the time,
now it's sometimes this triggers,
sometimes this doesn't trigger,
and then it is obviously worse than just a town coming down.
Yeah.
Something that's really interesting about the Dahan being replaced is,
in my opinion,
how cohesive it feels.
 And we'll talk about the rest very shortly.
But because of how hard they hit,
that Dahan,
if they were being outnumbered by such a large amount anyways,
wasn't going to live.
Oh, that's fair.
And so imagine if it was just out of town.
You aren't capable of dealing with that land anyways because they hit so hard.
And so it feels like this replace the Dahan text is like a like a feels bad moment.
 but it doesn't actually change anything because they were already dead.
 Right.
Other interesting things,
because it's a replacement effect,
if that Dahan had damage on it,
then so does the town.
Yeah, that's pretty goofy.
I mean, it's an edge case.
I don't know how a Dahan would have, I guess, from the Ravage is just about the only way, right?
Unless you're attacking your own Dahan.
There's a couple of situations, but that is a goofy thing.
Events, I guess.
Yeah.
I mean, it's weird, but sometimes that sort of weirdness can save your bacon.
 It is a randomizer, though, like you had mentioned.
It happens, you could say, roughly half the time in a neutral board state.
And I wonder why that's necessary,
because none of the other stage 2 escalations require a randomizer.
 Yeah, it's something.
I mean,
it's worth also remembering this is one of the base game adversaries,
so design-wise,
it's as early as it gets in Spirit Island.
True.
Yeah.
Okay,
so looking at level one,
you've got just your typical nine fear cards,
not anything added from playing vanilla.
And then the game effect is heavy mining.
If the invaders do at least six damage to the land during Ravage, add an extra Blight.
The additional Blight does not destroy Presence or cause Cascade.
And right off the bat,
we're into,
I think,
one of,
I would consider two of Sweden's signature game effects.
Okay.
 I'm excited to hear what you think the other one is.
Okay.
I would agree.
This is, in my mind, quintessential Sweden.
This is what defines their loss condition, how they create all of their pressure.
Their level one...
I haven't played level one Sweden in years by itself,
so I didn't really realize how avoidable it is without...
 They're level three, but... Yes.
This is like your standard explorer town city.
And so if they have that, then, you know, it's pretty brutal.
This can only realistically happen without a land showing up again on the inland town location.
Ah.
Where they explore into that inland town and then they make a city.
 And that could be pretty hard to deal with.
And so now you have like double blight.
It's kind of cool.
This is certainly Sweden, though.
Like this is quintessential.
This is what defines Sweden.
But without the level like three, this isn't as impactful as I think it is in my head.
Yeah, no, absolutely.
I mean, I don't.
 I don't actually remember where we put this level in our isolated rules.
But even with taking stage two escalation into the picture,
which it would have in a normal gameplay,
this is just not really scary at all.
But it's a good thing for, I would say, newer players in that it doesn't make the game longer.
The fear cards are the same.
And if you are playing the game...
 quote-unquote correctly, anyway, this will not be a problem at all.
This will just never come up.
And I think that's something that I did want to emphasize with Sweden,
where I would say that,
like,
Sweden feels very...
Unlike most of the other adversaries,
Sweden feels very like you're still just playing Spirit Island just on a harder
difficulty.
Because if you play Spirit Island well, then Sweden is not really as much of a problem.
I think that's part of why it's a lower-level difficulty adversary,
because you use the skills that you've learned from playing the base game or even
from playing with other adversaries or whatever,
or BP\u2014
You can use that same skill set here in a way that you can't in,
like,
Russia,
where it's like,
okay,
suddenly now you have to care a lot more about explorers in a way you never have
before.
Sweden,
and we'll get to it as we get to,
like,
the levels,
if you're doing all the right things,
if you're stopping the explorers,
if you're preventing the blight coming down,
if you're defending properly,
you're doing all those things,
then you've beat Sweden.
I think I would push back on that a little bit.
Ooh, okay.
I think that, um...
 Defend is one of the most consistent, essential aspects to Spirit Island.
And Sweden kind of slaps you in the wrist for doing so.
Oh, 100%.
It does.
But because of this first rule especially...
 you still are rewarded for defending, even if you don't fully defend.
A defend five might cause a blight still, but you saved yourself one.
It's really interesting.
Exactly.
Um...
 Yeah, I don't know.
I'm very welcome to debate on that.
Obviously, every adversary does a little something something.
Yeah.
And this one does mix things up.
But I feel like if you're doing the right fundamentals, there's not as many gotchas.
For sure.
Unless you forget rule number three, which can happen.
They come up swinging, but they don't have the same lasting power.
That's why I think they're not as strong.
We'll get to this soon.
 Let's talk about the level 2 here.
This is a very simple one.
During setup on each board, you add a city to lane number 4.
If Blight started in lane number 4, you push it to lane number 5.
I think that this pairs really well with the level 1 because I just mentioned that
the only time that you'll have that level 1 threat without back-to-backs or
something like that is Inland Town.
 Well, this now makes it so that the inland town spot and land number four are that.
That's half the lands.
And if you're playing without expansions, without disease, then land number two.
So this is three out of the four lands are like a heavy mining thing.
 Yeah.
You had mentioned that a lot of the time, you just let land number two go.
I did.
In a normal game of Spirit Island.
That one city, because it's the only city, right?
For a little while, at least.
Unless something horrible happens.
You've got a few turns before another city pops up.
You just let that one go, and that's whatever.
But now, if you let that one and this one go, it's like, that's two cities.
That could be two blight.
yeah not great it's one of those things where uh we're rolling the dice on how bad
heavy mining could potentially be saying oh and it's a one out of four chance and
this is increasing it to a 50 50 and the next stage
fine steel for tools and guns will increase it to 75% because towns deal 3 damage
cities deal 5 damage making it so that even with the blight on land not blight
disease on land 2 the city plus the explorer is 6 damage each of these are so
cohesive within themselves but how badly do you think level 2 is without level 3?
how bad is that one extra city?
it's
 mildly inconvenient.
It's like an England land number two.
And considering the fact that the escalation might mean there's more towns than
usual on your board,
there could also be another city that pops up faster than you'd expect.
And yeah, all these things combined with level three, definitely.
But also combined with level one,
can can start to add up a little bit yeah it's not it's not too bad not too crazy
but you're suddenly putting out more fires at the beginning of the game as you said
uh it starts strong yeah if you can't deal with by level three sweden if you can't
deal with one of their lands by turn two i think the game might just be over
yeah you have to do something and like every spirit can but this is where the game
says hey we're coming out swinging deal with it looking back at our isolated tier
list just real quick for fun uh we had put heavy mining which is level one in the
does nothing by itself which i think i definitely yeah stand by yeah
Although granted,
that combined with the escalation,
which we didn't take into consideration when we made the tier list,
makes it a little worse,
but still not.
I'd still probably put it in does nothing by itself.
Moving up to population pressure at home, level two, we put it in a bit difficult.
 Which is fair.
An extra city in that context.
An extra inland city.
Is an issue in terms of like solo rules and yeah, in terms of the combination as well.
I also think we mentioned it then and here too,
just that the moving of that blight is just for game function.
It doesn't really make anything harder or easier.
It just makes it so that you're not,
like,
totally in trouble if you pick the wrong board or get randomized into the wrong
board.
Well,
because land four is adjacent to land three,
which has,
like,
the really swingy outcomes,
moving the Blight away from that's pretty important.
And because of how... You think so?
It's relevant.
It's, like, a subtle thing.
And then because they have the city there, they're more likely to Blight anyways.
And so if they started with the Blight, then they would cause a Cascade.
 Like, 100% of the time.
But alright, we've put it off long enough.
Let's fully talk about level 3 here.
This is the other one that I think is just signature Sweden.
Towns dealing 3 damage, cities dealing 5 damage.
It's one of the shortest lines of text on any of these, but boy does it make a difference.
If I were to name one other thing that is Sweden, it would be this as well.
Towns hit hard, cities hit harder.
Yeah.
 This makes it so your normal city-town explorer is doing 9 damage.
No minor power blocks this, except the one that defends for 10 at a sacred site.
But you're putting yourself really out there, you know?
So it's much more challenging to deal with that.
Yeah,
this one in the isolated rule tier list we put in moderately difficult,
which is our second tier.
And I think we were even debating putting it in the hardest.
And that's in isolation.
When you combine this,
especially with rule number one,
but also rule number two and the escalation,
just all of these things together,
you know,
you've got more buildings on the board by a lot.
And now all of a sudden they just deal a lot more damage.
It's nasty.
It's rough.
 Yeah.
And like you said,
I mean,
there's very few individual minor powers can deal with this in defense.
But that doesn't make the defense useless because of the double blight in level one.
Sometimes even just preventing one of those two blight is important enough.
And a lot of times what also happens is you...
 You could play something, right, intending to get the damage under six.
You prevent the second blight,
and then,
oh,
an event comes and knocks out a town,
and then suddenly you have enough to just stop all of it.
That happens sometimes, and it's very nice.
Yeah,
with the defend,
you're playing around edge cases more often where you're saying,
I think I can get lucky.
I have a fear card.
Maybe I'll put my presence in there with some Dahan, and we'll get lucky.
Something will come up.
And yeah,
if there's one strategy that does get hurt by Sweden,
it is the defense strategy because of that very reason.
Yes.
Something that's really notable about Defend and why it's so strong isn't the
Blight preventing aspects of it,
though.
It's the Dahan counterattacking.
And so even if you do say,
hey,
I prevented one Blight,
you rarely are getting that counterattack unless you're investing multiple cards or
getting lucky.
 Don't worry, Thomas.
All your dahan have been replaced with towns.
It's true.
They're gone.
You don't have to worry about that.
I threw them into the furnace.
They've all decided that having cell phones is more important than helping nature.
Oh, dear.
They couldn't stay away from the meatballs.
No.
 All right, I think I've exhausted all my Sweden knowledge.
Anyway, yeah.
Yeah, this one's nasty.
It's very important.
When I play this physically,
I put a little town and a little city next to the board with two little dice,
a three and a five,
just as a reminder,
because...
yeah uh i mean and it's it helps it helps to remember because if you if you don't
remember this it's bad news and this is also one of those things that like in the
digital version sometimes you can get checked out if you're just jamming games and
you just totally forget zone out defend for five they hit for nine you're like oh
whoops oh yeah yeah exactly um
So it's just something,
you know,
I say there's no gotchas,
and I don't think there's gotchas in terms of,
like,
randomization or really complicated rules or anything,
but,
like,
this one's just please remember this if you're playing Sweden,
and it's not that hard to remember once you've played Sweden a bunch,
but,
like,
yeah,
just don't get got.
Do you use those little cardboard shits that you,
like,
put on the Invader lineup that say,
hey,
during Ravage they do something,
level 3,
check it out?
like half the time they're not that useful i like i appreciate that they're there
and i'm sure some people like it helps them a lot but for me it's just like
sometimes i put them sometimes i forget to put them yeah i used to use them like
basically every game and now i play enough that uh i don't need them but whenever
i'm playing with double adversaries i
 We lower the difficulty, not difficulty, but the level of the adversary.
And so we're like,
OK,
let's put these here so we remember and more importantly,
remember which ones we aren't using.
So I like that.
That's fair.
Yeah.
But yeah, I think that like.
I don't want to say like you're not playing Sweden if you don't play level three,
because that's not true at all.
But for me, at the level that I'm at, it's like.
 it has to be level three minimum because otherwise it just doesn't feel right.
Um,
level three is where like all those,
those two previous rules and the escalation all come together to create like a,
an interesting challenge.
Um, also the fear cards, uh, it's 10 for level two and it's also 10 for level three.
It's three, four, three.
It doesn't, it doesn't get any harder on that level.
They, they, I guess, deem that, um,
Three damage on towns,
five damage on cities is enough of a difficulty jump that they don't need to add
more fear cards.
I agree about playing level three for Sweden.
The other three levels are frosting to the cake.
The first three are, this is what Sweden is.
They hit hard,
and when they hit hard,
they approach this extra loss condition,
which is the normal loss condition.
Like level 2 is,
it emphasizes,
it makes it so that they do their thing more often because Sweden is really
susceptible to control.
You move their things around and they don't do anything.
They don't have any staying power, but it's all front loaded.
And we'll see that with Royal Backing, level 4.
During setup, after everything's come out,
 You discard the top card of the invader deck, and you add another town.
The town doesn't do anything, but it adds to that threat that I keep mentioning.
On level 1,
you deal 6 damage,
you cause this Blight,
and now level 2 makes it so that there's another land that this Blight was going to
happen,
and level 3 makes it so another land,
innately,
without doing anything,
this is going to happen,
and level 4 does it again.
 Yeah, and it's worth noting that it's the card you discarded.
It's that terrain type.
Yeah.
The land of that terrain with the fewest invaders.
And if it's tied, you get to choose.
But that makes it easier because you know that it's not going to come up again.
Until stage two.
Yep.
But you're getting closer to stage two because you just removed the level one.
 Yeah, and I think that that's a more interesting thing, really, than the town that comes down.
The fact that they're getting set up a little bit faster,
the fact that you're closer to a potential,
you know,
that land that got a city added to it in level two,
right?
Uh-oh,
maybe it builds,
maybe it shows up in the first level of invader cards,
and then,
oh no,
right away!
Like,
turn three,
there's another,
there's a stage two card,
and...
It replaces that to Han,
and now we have two towns in this land,
plus the explorer.
 Yeah.
We talked about this a little bit in the isolated rules,
but it's just true that any time you do start to mess with that deck,
it might not be a...
It's just swingy on whether it matters or not,
really.
Sometimes it doesn't matter.
Sometimes it's horrible that there's two of the same terrain type.
Sometimes it's great that there's two of the same terrain type because you cleared
it right away.
But it definitely leads to some spicy experiences.
Yes.
I really like royal backing from,
like,
a play perspective,
in that we have a lot of adversaries that remove cards from the invader deck,
but this one removes them with style.
I don't know how else to put it.
Like...
you you know that this card is gone and it has an extra impact it's not remove this
uh a card at random and at a town it's that knowledge of pairing and it like shifts
the way that you're able to play just a little bit and i wish there was a little
bit more remove cards with style
 Yeah, that's, that's cool.
We had put this in the minor difficulty change category,
isolated,
uh,
with a lot of the other,
a lot of the brand number pressure remove one cards.
Um,
but,
of course,
taking it,
taking it in its full,
in its full glory,
um,
I still don't really think it's that big a deal,
but of course it's a lot worse with
that escalation and and just the city that's there early and things that can things
that can happen um it is also 11 fear cards it's just they just keep adding one
fear card every time with this except for from level two to level three um and i
think that that's totally fine for this particular adversary the extra town gives
you another fear to like move through the fear deck and where they place the fears
at the very end so maybe it's fine
Well,
I mean,
as we kind of said,
this adversary is a little bit on the top heavy side in that it starts strong and I
mean,
it stays strong for a little bit and then it kind of tapers off or you lose.
And so,
yeah,
I think I think not making a million fear cards is fine because a lot of times
you're close to winning anyway.
So, you know.
 Like, you'd be close to winning whether there was 15 fear cards or 11 fear cards.
Also,
there weren't that many fear cards when they designed this,
so,
you know,
could only go up by so much.
This is a fine addition,
but like you said,
it feels more whipped cream than,
like,
really meaty feeling here.
So, level 5?
 Yeah.
Goes up again to 12 fear cards.
It's a mining rush.
When Ravaging adds at least one Blight to a land.
Also, add a town to an adjacent land without towns or cities.
A Cascading Blight does not cause this effect.
Don't worry.
You had mentioned forgetting towns and cities do more damage.
This is the one that I would ever forget.
That's fair.
Yeah.
Well, because you're Mr. No Blight comes down.
 Yeah, Blight comes down and you're like, oh, why did a town, how did that show up?
Yeah, it does happen on the digital version.
You're just like, wait a minute, hang on.
What's it asking me here?
Or when I'm playing physically and I look at the little cardboard shit and it says
Level 5 Ravage and I go,
oh no.
What have I done?
Yeah.
So this has some nice little things.
The first one is Isolate.
like lol isolate is really good here reasonable yeah I so this one adds a fear card
at the beginning which the level 1 fear cards are much weaker talked about this in
the past it's another level 1 fear card you have to get through that's fine but it
is a little more challenging
There's points where Mining Rush just doesn't do anything,
because if you don't blight,
then you don't have any sounds,
or if you just have a bad enough board,
you don't do anything either.
Yeah.
I mean... If you're just losing, you're fine.
We did put this in the moderately difficult category in the isolated...
Yeah,
this one's really rough.
This one's really rough.
 Yeah, well, because all of them are three damage, too.
That's the thing.
It's an ongoing effect.
It's like an extra town every turn, potentially.
It's an extra two towns, potentially, every turn per player.
I will say,
looking,
looking,
you know,
paying attention to the words on this text is very important because it says when
ravaging adds at least light to a land.
Yes.
 Events that add blight will not trigger this.
Oh, no, please don't do that.
It's easy to make that sort of mistake.
You know, your wildfires are not that out of control.
Your Heart of the Wildfire friend can chill because, yeah, they're already doing enough trouble.
Yeah.
It's...
 This is definitely the thing that lets them stay in the game.
It's what keeps them having longevity throughout the game, but it doesn't occur that often.
It's very spooky though.
It's very spooky.
If you let this happen two turns in a row, you're in danger, and it's spooky.
Yeah,
I mean,
I think everything you said is true,
in that it can be something that doesn't matter a lot of the time,
but then also,
when it does matter,
it's nasty,
and it is very kicky while you're down.
Yeah,
you gotta be just very careful where you put that town,
but the fact that you can't,
it has to be one without buildings,
stinks.
Unless buildings are everywhere, and then it's great.
You mentioned where you put the town, and
that's important because you do have a lot of control yep you choose where it goes
if you have you're playing vengeance and you have a little blight there you can put
that town where you're at and you know you can blow it up if you're playing volcano
you can put the town into your land you can blow it up if you're playing any of
those spirits cool good for you yeah so
 It is very important to always consider these things.
A lot of times,
you know,
in the in the chaos of the game,
right,
you can think,
I don't know,
just put the town wherever what you know,
put the explorer wherever do this wherever.
But truthfully, it does matter.
It always matters.
And they're
there usually is an optimal way to do it,
even if only by a hair,
even if only by like a,
well,
there's a few events that could trigger and do this.
Just,
you know,
always try to look at that,
unless you're playing a super casual game and you don't care,
that's fine.
Yeah, if you try to min-max things, the level of prescience that's necessary to...
consider where every town has to go is challenging but it can be really rewarding
yeah i mean we're level five here so you know we're we're up there like yeah this
is definitely a challenging game um and then the last level yet again uh level six
here adds one more fear card uh it back loads it it's on the level three um or no
 Wait, Terra level 3?
Fear card 3?
Did I say it right?
It's Terra level 3, right?
Yeah.
There's like stages of invader cards and levels of terror, and I always get them confused.
But anyway, it's prospecting outpost.
During setup on each board, add a town and a blight to land number 8.
The blight comes from the box, not the blight card.
I do have to say I love how much so many of these read as like, you know, this happens.
Oh, but don't worry, don't worry.
We're not that cruel.
Like, the blight comes from the box.
 Cascading doesn't cause its effect.
Some of it almost seems like reminder text.
Like, oh, this is how it functions, and like, oh, is it here or here?
And we're like, we'll save ourselves an FAQ later.
How about we just put the answer right here?
But yeah,
it's funny,
because level 1 is the additional Blight doesn't cause Cascade or Destroy Presence.
Level 2 is on boards where land 4 starts with Blight,
you can push that Blight to land 5 instead.
And then, you know, hey, Cascading Blight does not cause its effect on level 5.
Level 6, the Blight comes to the box, not the Blight card.
So,
 You know, they're nice.
They're trying to be nice.
Yeah, they're absolutely teaching the rules of the game.
And in some cases,
they're also just being a slightly nicer version of the effect than could have
happened.
Yeah.
Prospecting Outpost is...
 In a lot of ways, like level two population pressure at home.
But it is a little more aggressive by adding that blight.
It's that one's a city.
This one's a town.
They're different in that way.
But it makes it so that you have yet another land that goes explore town city.
So, yeah.
Yeah.
We had also put this in the does nothing by itself category because,
you know,
in a game,
it's a town.
 Yeah, if there's no other rules, then who cares?
I mean, whatever.
But it just... Yeah, it is just a little bit of pressure.
A little bit more pressure.
I don't see a huge difference between, like, level 5 and level 6.
But, I mean, it's there.
It's something.
I also don't.
And if I remember correctly,
difficulty-wise,
level 5 is,
like,
difficulty 7,
and level 6 is written as difficulty 8.
So...
 It seems, though, those are pretty narrow in scope for difficulty.
I would consider level 6 closer to difficulty 9.
I think making it so that they're consistently hitting as hard as they do on turn 2
is an impactful thing.
Like, hitting that hard everywhere...
 Yeah.
I guess I didn't mention this,
but the levels,
the difficulties that they've added in some printings of this,
depending on what printing of Spirit Island you have,
it might not be on the card,
on the adversary card.
But it's difficulty 2 for level 1,
3 for level 2,
5 for level 3,
6 for level 4,
7 for level 5,
and 8 for level 6.
 which makes sense.
It kind of lines up with the fear,
really,
in that it just goes up by one,
except for the jump from two to three,
which goes up by two,
which understandable.
 Yeah, level three is... That's a spooky one.
This is what Sweden's all about, though.
So we've gone through all of their levels and how cohesive Sweden is.
There are some things that I want to talk about, like, strategy tactics-wise.
Yeah.
We mentioned defending being less effective, but something that's way more effective are skips.
Ooh.
 If we're looking at this and they're attacking for 300 and I say skip, I don't really care.
And it makes this so that a lot of spirits that have a skip in their base kit run
really well into Sweden.
That checks out.
I mean,
if there's no other loss condition,
then,
you know,
and if you skip every Ravage,
hypothetically,
the only thing you'd have to worry about is running out of invader cards.
And you have plenty of time.
Right.
And because they don't have that staying power that a lot of adversaries have...
 Except for their mining rush, where it says if you add a blight, you add a town.
Well, you skipped their blight, so they're not adding a town.
It makes it so that they come out swinging really hard,
and then they dwindle off and don't do anything really quickly.
The next thing is, anytime that they explore...
you can push them into this bad land,
this place that looks really gross,
because you're just intending on skipping it.
And so they never build, and so they then never ravage.
And it makes it so that spirits like Wildfire can just walk onto that explorer and
kill it,
and then push the other one,
because he's pretty good at that,
and...
well,
eventually he'll blow up the bad land.
 And this is like a pretty common pattern for a lot of different spirits.
They just kind of deal with these simple things and skip the bad one.
Or let it go off and deal with the town.
Where do you put just kind of pushy spirits, control spirits?
I think that the control spirits are better than normal against Sweden.
Like your river, you know.
Yeah.
They have the capability of preventing these blights by pushing them,
the town,
and the explorers before they ever build up.
And they will find some way to destroy this land.
They don't need to skip.
They only need a couple of skips here and there.
Or they just accept the double blight.
You know, it's not that big of a deal.
They can push the town back in.
It's the ones that rely on defend that really seem to struggle here.
Yeah,
I was playing a game earlier with Eyes,
and it's...
I think that,
like...
I mean,
defense can be very...
I don't want to say,
like,
overpowered in the game,
but just it's a very powerful strategy in conjunction with the Han movement.
And it's actually kind of nice with eyes because it gives eyes a little bit more of
a challenge.
Because oftentimes,
most of the time in the rest of the game,
you just say,
okay,
well,
I've got my defend eight and then the land solved.
Whereas in this one,
it's like,
yeah,
maybe you have to use that plus your innate to defend a little bit more.
And I think that's neat.
But I do agree that it hits them.
It hits them a little harder.
 And I think that's a good thing.
Anything to keep those defense spirits down.
Yeah, they're defending.
We can throw all we got at them.
They got bulletproof vests.
Just keep shooting.
Bulletproof vests.
Off topic completely.
Playing Arkham Horror.
And that's a card in that game.
That does a lot of health.
nice it's a lot of health a lot of defend well speaking of uh fear i guess and
sanity and stuff um where do you put fear fears spears as i called spirits of
course yeah yeah so the fear cards the way that this is set up is like
three three three at level one uh the base game and then it just kind of like goes
up where they slot in the card near the back end most of the time and that makes it
so it's really easy to rush a bunch of fear you can kind of race sweden like
somewhat consistently because you get the good fear cards quickly interesting
So,
like,
and,
like,
about on,
which is a combination of,
like,
fear and control is favorable,
you think?
Just because you're doing both.
You're generating lots of fear.
Yeah, I think that's not too challenging.
Like, the biggest worry is that where the Badland is, you can't clean up because there's...
cities there and they hit really hard but when you say bad land you mean literally
a bad yeah I mean the spooky land the one that's like dangerous the built up land
yeah yes
I'm saying that not through the mechanical aspect of Token Badlands,
but the thematic statements that that land is very bad for us.
Yeah, that's fair.
Interesting.
Okay,
well,
so to pivot a little bit from just,
like,
spirits,
types of spirits,
individual spirits,
right?
Like, who do we think has a hard time with Sweden other than the defense spirits?
Yeah.
 Who has a hard time against Sweden?
I've got one.
I got one prep.
Yeah, tell me.
Ocean doesn't love Sweden because lots of times Ocean loves to just say, you know what?
Those inland lands, just let them go.
One blight's not going to hurt us.
Unfortunately, two blight.
 Plus a town ad will hurt us very much so.
So Ocean needs a solution to those far-reaching lands very fast or else trouble.
Especially in Inland City, too.
It's like, what do you even do about that?
That makes sense.
I mean,
obviously there are things you can do about it and also the power of teamwork,
but just individually Ocean just has a hard time with
 with the speed at which those things happen, all that light comes down.
I agree.
It's almost every inland at max left difficulty.
Every inland land is a meaningful threat and it's a threat that's like approaching
the real loss condition of double blights every turn.
 I think shifting memory.
I was going to say, yeah, speaking of things we've done episodes on, memory is another one.
It just it takes a while.
It's defend.
Innate is just like utterly useless here.
Yeah.
They don't have the tools that I've been talking about to deal with anything that they have.
And then the little defend that they have on their board is pitiful.
It's like you have to roll into something pretty good major power-wise,
but they just come out swinging so hard,
and you need some time to set up.
And I guess that reminds me of another spirit that needs a little bit of time to
set up,
like Serpent.
I don't know.
Takes a little bit of time.
Or Wounded Waters, too.
Any of these spirits that...
 Our beast late game, but not good early, will just get dumpstered by Sweden.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No, I think that's pretty consistent.
Where would you put Heart of the Wildfire on this, too?
I think that's another one that probably has trouble just with all the blight.
Oh, Heart of the Wild?
No, I think Heart of the Wildfire.
This is one of their better matchups.
Really?
Okay.
Maybe their strongest.
Interesting.
Do tell.
 Yeah, I was mentioning this earlier.
Sweden is so susceptible to control,
and Heart of the Wildfire doesn't have that in the stereotypical sense,
because a lot of adversaries have resistance against the way that he can control
things.
So France will place two explorers, so your one damage doesn't clear the land.
 If you're trying to wipe out towns, England has extra health, etc.
You go down the list and they all have resistance to dealing one damage.
But where Sweden... They explore.
You place your presence there.
You've dealt with their build and their ravage.
And it's moderately easy to just deal with the other one.
And...
Whenever they do ravage causing a town,
you go,
oh,
well,
and you put it into your land to be able to light on fire.
OK, that's that's reasonable.
And then eventually you just walk into their big built up land,
if they even have one,
because you've prevented so many things from existing.
And you just blow that up eventually.
Yeah.
Anytime that they would blight, you say, no, no, I'll do it myself.
Yeah,
and you do have the Raidenate that lets you clean up a double-blighted land with no
problems whatsoever.
Yeah.
I think this is a very comfortable matchup for Heart of the Wildfire.
Okay, I see that.
I enjoy doing it, and whenever you're playing a solo, it's very fast.
Mm-hmm.
 It's very snappy.
I guess if you know what you're doing with Wildfire, you're right.
It probably is a favorable match.
If you don't know what you're doing with Wildfire, then you just lose immediately.
You just blight everywhere.
I placed a bite.
They placed three.
Oh, well.
 Any other spirits that are, like, super favorable?
I think I mentioned Bowdon.
That's only theoretical.
I've never tried Bowdon, so I don't know.
I mean, I think everyone's waiting for me to say it.
Say it!
Yeah, Relentless Gaze of the Sun does pretty well here.
Oh, dear.
That's relentless.
For, like, many of the same reasons as Wildfire, it's just that they...
can utilize the weaknesses of Sweden to clean everything up,
and they have a skip in their base kit.
So, it's just a very easy ride for them.
Maybe one of the easier matchups, but... Okay, fair.
Maybe, what about, let's see, the spirits that can add vitality?
Which is...
 Just the one base spirit.
And then, yeah, a few adversities.
Light.
So vitality is notably weak against Sweden.
Oh, interesting.
Whenever they hit hard, which is always, they add two.
And so you remove the vitality and then you add blight anyways.
But a lot of where Towering Roots of the Jungle is,
which is the main spirit that uses vitality,
it's like it's incarnate there and several vitality are there.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Okay.
Alright.
Yeah,
I just think that the vitality token itself is not very valuable and I don't want
to invest into it because the alternative to placing vitality is to get energy.
 And energy is good.
Okay.
What about, like... Sweden... How does Sweden do with minor powers that remove Blight?
Like, are we happy to do that?
Are we drafting that because...
I mean,
hey,
whenever a really nasty Ravage happens,
there's going to be 2-plus Blight coming down,
so there'll always be a good target for that Blight-removing power?
If that's something that...
 That's not the reason that I care about blight removing powers most of the time.
Okay.
It's a reactive thing, and I don't think you're ever going to outpace the blight that they add.
I really like blight removal against something like Russia,
because they have three explorers and one land,
and they're just going to Ravage their return.
So you say, okay, you Ravage, I'll remove this blight every turn.
It's like a skip.
Okay.
But against Sweden,
you remove the Blight,
and if they Ravage there again,
there's still a Blight there,
and they're placing three more.
Yeah, okay, that's reasonable.
Alright, so what about combining Sweden with other adversaries?
This, wow, oh man, I'm gonna flouter for a second, because I'm going crazy in my head.
Combine it with Brandenburg, Prussia, remove the entirety of the Invader deck.
 So I think that Sweden is one of the strongest turn two, turn three adversaries.
They come out swinging and they come swinging hard,
but they fall off because they're so susceptible to control and they don't have any
sustain letting them stay in the game for longer.
Almost every other adversary does.
And so in a vacuum, you might say that Sweden is the weakest adversary, but
 by itself, but I think it's the strongest supporting adversary
Well,
I think if you add the dealing three damage on towns and dealing five damage on
cities to any other adversary...
Oh,
God.
Just that alone is gross.
It's really hard to deal with.
How about combine that with Habsburg and just make everything have a ton of health
and do a ton of damage?
Yup.
There's stage two escalation.
Depending on if this is the stage two or stage three escalation for Sweden, you...
Versus just Sweden,
you can play around where the Dahan are at,
but with other adversaries,
there's so many more invader pieces that some Dahan's going away.
This is just happening.
Huh.
Interesting.
I find the Sweden to be really tough as a supporting adversary.
Explain the stage 2 versus stage 3 thing you just mentioned.
Oh yeah,
so whenever you're playing with multiple adversaries,
the stage 2 escalation will occur on the primary adversary,
and the stage 2 escalation will become a stage 3 escalation on the supporting
adversary.
That makes sense.
So if you're playing with England primary,
their stage 2 will be build,
and if you're playing with them secondary,
then they'll build at stage 3 escalation.
 That seems more manageable than if they were both stage two.
Yes, yes.
For sure.
And Sweden at the stage two escalation can just be really aggressive.
At the stage three, you've probably already won or lost by that point, so it doesn't...
matter too much but right and also also stage three your dahan are probably bunched
up or dead exactly exactly like you've you've dealt with this you've killed all
your dahan they're gone uh no no not killed replaced replaced they're replaced yeah
they put on some khakis and i don't know got some ikea furniture or whatever uh
 There we go.
I had one more Sweden reference.
I apologize if anyone's listening from Sweden.
It's a lovely country.
I've been there.
It's beautiful, really.
I can't imagine them attacking a peaceful,
beautiful island that seems very unsweden-like,
but it's a fictional game,
so it's okay.
The past was a wild time.
That's true.
Okay.
Anything else on Double Adversaries?
 No, no, I don't think there's anything in particular that they do that's notably weird.
It's just that their weaknesses of not being able to sustain themselves are shored
up by almost every other adversary,
and it's noticeable.
Yeah.
And whenever every other adversary hits as hard as this does, it's terrifying.
Yeah.
Huh.
 All right, so something fun I thought could be interesting to try.
Maybe this will be a disaster.
I don't know.
I've randomized up the minor and major decks.
We'll select four cards from the minor deck,
and we'll just say,
what do you think is the best card against Sweden?
Ignoring whatever the board state looks like,
ignoring whatever spirit you're playing as,
just like,
what would you just generally pick?
I know it's hard to think that way and hard to do that,
but just for funsies,
we'll maybe do a round or two of this to...
 Let's see how it goes.
So looking at the miners, our first card is Weep for What is Lost.
Our second card is Suckling Ooze.
Our third card is Inflame the Fires of Life.
And our fourth card is Call to Bloodshed.
And just really quickly,
Weep for What is Lost is one fear per type of invader present,
push up to one explorer slash town per blight.
 Suckling Ooze is two fear.
If invaders are present, isolate target land.
Inflame the Fires of Life is add one disease or one fear at a strife.
Three animal, you may do both.
And Call to Bloodshed is a really dope card.
One damage for Dahan or gather up to three Dahan.
What are you thinking here?
Yeah, I think in a vacuum, like...
 No spears or anything.
Sucking ooze is really strong.
That isolate prevents explorers and it prevents those towns from getting out.
I think isolate is really strong against Sweden.
We only mentioned it kind of in passing their level 5, I think it was.
But it kind of permeates throughout the entire adversary,
more so than other things,
because they don't have a way to recoup the Lost Explorer.
The other one I would be cool with is called a Bloodshed,
moving those to Han before they,
you know,
become Sweden-ized.
Yeah, that was my pick.
I...
 mobilizing the Dahan, great.
You bunch them up.
The fact that it's a gather, too, is just, like, perfect, right?
Because you just cluster them up real easily.
And then on top of that, too, just the damage.
I mean,
this is one of the few minor powers that could theoretically kill that city that
gets added,
that extra city,
pretty quickly.
You know, you could do that on turn two, potentially.
If you draft this turn one.
So, yeah.
Interesting.
Interesting cards.
Let's do another one.
 Scream Disease into the Wind.
We've got Like Calls to Like, Drift Down into Slumber, and Hazards Spread.
Oh yeah, wow.
 Wow, wow, wow.
So Scream Disease is the range, the extra range, plus a disease.
Like Calls to Like is the thing that gathers one of each thing that's in that land
up from adjacent lands.
Drift Down to Slumber is Defend 4 if it's Jungle or Sands, or just Defend 1 if you're weird.
And Hazards is... You gotta know what Hazards is at this point.
Come on, this comes up every other episode.
Yeah.
But as a token to adjacent lands.
Basically.
Yep.
Uh...
 I think like calls to like is what I would be looking at in this adversary.
It looks at the built up land and it pulls everything in.
They have a way to cause cascades naturally.
They're adding towns through those.
And so if you don't have a way to skip, you say, okay, I accept it.
But now I'm just going to pull everything back in.
This also deals with the explorer that's coming in.
And so like calls to like does everything that you want against them.
 Really consistently.
Yeah, no, I agree.
Even down to potentially pulling in a blight and just stacking up a big blight land.
Great stuff.
That's a good one.
I think the worst one here is drift down to slumber.
Yeah.
 Yeah, I hate to say it because I like the card.
The card's great.
I know.
Yeah, but that defend won in wetlands or mountains.
You gotta think about that, Thomas.
Did you think about that part?
I didn't.
I didn't.
What if there's just two explorers in the land?
good for you alright let's keep going I'm having fun next we have spur on with
words of fire favor of the sun and starlit dark rights of the land's rejection and
here there be monsters which would be spur on is if you target a spirit other than
yourself to gain one energy target spirit may immediately play another power card
by paying its cost
uh favor the starlet dark is defend four push up to one blight and then if you have
two sun one fear rights the land's rejection is invaders do not build in target
land this turn one fear per town slash city or one fear per to han whichever is
less or push up to three to han and lastly here there be monsters is you may push
one explorer slash town slash to han to fear if target land has any beasts one fear
hmm
 Well, I think Spur On with Words of Fire is the one I'd go with.
Anytime that you can get your team ahead of the curve means that they aren't doing
their thing,
they can't keep up with you,
and you've won.
Getting to that next level on your left innate for someone is really powerful,
plus an extra card in play.
Spur On is doing that.
Mm-hmm.
 I really don't like taking favor of the sun and starlit dark.
Unfortunately, yeah.
Yeah.
And then the other two are both fine.
Yeah, that's fair.
That's fair.
I was just trying to decide if I liked Rites of the Lands rejection or not on this.
It's fast to Han movement.
It sure is.
And less builds means just less of those crazy five damaging cities.
Yeah.
Yeah.
 Yeah, alright, I'll go with that.
Sperron's nice, though.
Something I like about Here There Be Monsters is it...
We talked about fear,
being able to race against them pretty consistently.
This does a lot of fear,
and it means that you can also deal with them before they've ever built up.
But because of the range zero, it can be pretty random.
The other one is just more consistent.
 Yeah.
Yeah, interesting.
It's just funny,
because doing regular drafts or power card bingo,
it's like,
I look at the defend cards,
and I'm like,
ooh,
ooh.
Like, obviously, they're not all good, but a lot of them are pretty dang good.
Or, you know, most, if the card says defend, it's at least worth looking at and considering.
But in this, it's just like, is it the defend 10 one?
Is it the defend 6 one?
I could maybe do that.
If not, no.
Pass.
yeah okay let's do one more all right yeah go for it go for it okay razor sharp
undergrowth uh veil the knight's hunt delusions of danger and lure of the unknown
we talked about defend right we've got razor sharp the best defend card everyone's
favorite the defend two card
 Yeah.
But, but hang on.
Razor sharp.
But hang on.
Razor sharp.
Yeah.
Okay.
So, so we talked about this recently on a bingo.
Okay.
We did.
You destroy an explorer at a town,
or sorry,
you destroy an explorer at a Dahan,
add a wild,
and defend two.
Now, usually this card is pretty trash, but, but.
Right now, it's actually kind of good.
It lets you destroy that Dahan before the invaders can.
You say, no, no, no, I'll kill you before I let you turn into an invader, you traitor.
More importantly,
it destroys the Explorer,
and because Sweden only has,
you know,
the one Explorer,
and then you place the Wilds,
that land's done.
Yeah.
No, unironically, yeah, unironically, this one's kind of interesting.
Now, the fact that it can't target Blighted Lands is kind of a problem with Sweden.
Yeah.
But you're right.
So you know what?
Delusions of Danger pushes that Explorer,
which is the same thing as destroying it most of the time,
and Lure of the Unknown gathers...
Delusions of Danger is the one that I would go for because of the push being a
little bit better than gather into a no invader land but it's one of those two
being able to move that explorer prevents them from ever building at fast
 Yeah, but Vale is pushed to Han.
We seem to get one of these every time.
Yeah, and that's consistently a decent effect.
Yeah, no, Lore of the Unknown is usually a pretty, like, snap pick in a lot of cases.
And, I mean, it's not awful here, but I do agree with you that...
 It's not, I don't know, there can be invaders all over the place in Sweden.
It can be hard to find that convenient land that you want to bring a town or an
explorer into that doesn't have invaders.
Yeah, situationally, Lure of the Unknown is the best one here.
It's zero cost, four elements, maybe you just have that spot, you're playing the right spirit.
But, you know, like generic and playing against Sweden, I want the delusions for that.
I want this push the explorer now.
 Yeah, I think it's consistent.
It's consistent, whereas lore is definitely more context-dependent on the board.
Alright, do you want to do a major?
Yeah, show me some majors.
Alright, show me majors!
First we have Forests of Living Obsidian, a beautiful card for beautiful people.
Insatiable Hunger of the Swarm, Bargains of Power and Protection, and Unrelenting Growth.
What a power stack here.
 I'm not going to read all these effects.
You look at the YouTube version if you want.
True.
So majors are a bit more challenging to think of,
like,
what is really good at this exact moment.
Right.
So the one that I think is notably the worst is bargains of power and protection,
because,
again,
that defend isn't as useful and we probably have fewer than average.
Yeah.
 But I do think that Unrelenting Growth is probably pretty strong.
It pushes you ahead of them,
and if you place it where there's no adversary,
then you've deleted that land.
The land is gone.
Yeah, and thresholded.
You could even remove a Blight.
Yay!
We did it.
We saved the city.
There's like 50 Blight all around, but we removed one.
Removed one.
 And then the one could matter.
No, I think that is the take here.
I don't think I want to be adding more Blight, generally.
I like with Insatiable Hunger, personally.
But Forest is a good card, too.
Just saying.
True.
But Underletic Growth is a great card.
It's a great card in most situations and just really dope here.
You want to do one more?
 Yeah, we can do one more.
Let's check out another major.
Here we've got Exaltation of the Incandescent Sky,
Unlock the Gates of Deepest Power,
Poisoned Land,
and Plague Ships Sail to Distant Ports.
We have another Blight adding one.
We just mentioned we don't like that too much.
 Gates, almost like a re-roll.
Exaltation is a really strong power,
and it does what I mentioned with Spiron with Words of Fire.
It can push your teammates ahead in a way,
if you do it early enough,
in a way that they just can't come back from.
I think that's really the one I'd be looking at most of the time.
Mm-hmm.
yeah yeah i mean the main the main downside of this card is the energy cost but in
a generic game where we're just saying yeah sure i could have that seven energy for
you lickety split yeah i think i think that's the one that's a that's a card that
that's a that's a game game ender and there's game we have a decent idea of what
kind of powers we're looking for against sweden that's cool yeah yeah it's it's
something um
So,
like,
general thoughts about Sweden from a play standpoint,
from a design standpoint,
just your feelings about it.
Go.
Yeah,
I really like to play against Sweden with new adversaries,
not adversaries,
spirits,
and,
like,
I find them to be easy enough with a familiar and recognizable play pattern,
and they feel like simple spirit island without a lot of rules overhead,
like,
besides they hit hard.
 That I'm very comfortable playing into them with anything I'm unfamiliar with.
I really enjoy that about Brandenburg Prussia as well.
And Sweden being a comfort food that is different than go fast is really pleasant
to be in the game.
 Yes, that is a great way of summing it up from a playing perspective.
I do like that.
Almost all of it is setup, and then remembering that 3 damage, 5 damage rule.
And then, other than that, it's really just during Ravage that something happens.
So if you can remember that,
if you can remember the setup and the 3 damage,
5 damage,
you're golden in terms of memorizing this adversary.
Um...
And yeah,
I said it earlier,
but I do just kind of feel like this,
it just,
it takes a lot of the fundamentals of the game and just pushes them harder.
It doesn't, it's not, it's not wacky.
It's not a wacky adversary that's yoinking towns from next door or,
you know,
saying that you can stop ravages with disease or,
you know,
some of the,
some of these newfangled adversaries.
This is a, this is just a classic spirit island, but you got to play a little bit better.
 uh, because blights are raining down all around you.
And it's interesting.
It just, it's, it's, um, it's nice.
It's the adversary that I've played the most or probably approximately close to
like Brandenburg Prussia.
One of those two is what I played the most.
Um,
it's also one of those ones that just like,
it's there for you when you're learning the game,
right?
Starting with level one or two of this doesn't, is not crazy.
You can do that if you've played a few games of spirit Island, um,
 But then once you know what you're doing, level six is, it's a challenge.
It's not a crazy challenge, but it's certainly a challenge.
Um,
and,
and from a design standpoint,
I just,
I am a huge fan of the fact that just about everything on this card is about that,
that blight.
It's,
it's either,
you're either adding pieces that are going to,
going to do blight faster,
uh,
making the blight,
uh,
come down like twice,
making it easier for things to blight because of the three damage,
five damage,
all that stuff.
Um, or just, just adding an extra blight, you know, um,
 All that stuff.
It's just like, it's very focused.
It's very easy to sum up.
This is what this adversary does.
This is what you're trying to prevent.
There's nothing weird about it.
You're not playing like a...
I don't want to say like an offshoot,
because obviously all of it is Spirit Island.
But it's just like, this feels very quintessential Spirit Island to me.
And I love it for that.
Yeah.
Sweden is very cohesive.
Everything about them is... Ravage...
 Hard.
And it's great.
Yeah.
That's good.
Yeah.
And I mean, like you said, if you can stop the Ravage, you can stop Sweden.
So if you have those cards that skip Ravages, like, beautiful.
Do that.
If you have the ability to push everything out of a land or deal enough damage to
just kill everything in a land before it Ravages,
do that.
All of those things are just chef's kiss.
Love them.
 Okay.
Now,
this wasn't planned,
but if Sweden were an element and you only get one of them,
which element would it be?
Oh, man.
I think it's fire.
Which element is most frequently seen on those cards that add blight?
That's what I want to know.
I think it's fire.
Then probably fire, yeah.
 Scorched earth.
They do damage.
Basically.
What is Sweden doing to the island that made it so bad?
They're just so good at farming.
You have no clue, man.
That's just so good at farming.
Yes, this snowy nation is very good at farming.
 You just don't even know.
Hang on.
I'm looking up.
They found the tropics and they're like all in.
Yeah.
They've been perfecting their craft.
I'm sure they do genuinely farm there.
I'm not trying to make a dumb joke.
I'm just I'm just saying a nation that's used to farming in the winter.
I don't know what they're doing with the tropical island, but they're doing it.
 They're out here and they're doing it.
The notable thing is that they're not farming, they're mining.
Okay, yeah, we got King Eric XV.
Okay,
following his triumph at the Battle of Lutzen in 1632,
King Gustavus Adolphus led the kingdom of Sweden to further victories over Catholic
armies,
defeating and partitioning the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth with Brandenburg and
Russia in 1644.
And then a bunch of other stuff happens.
Along with a desire for more natural resources,
Sweden's desire for a safety valve outlet for discontents and political educators
has driven their desire to establish themselves as a colonial power.
Interesting.
Yeah.
Interesting.
Thomas, what is your opinion on Catholic armies?
Yeah.
 I'm just kidding.
Don't answer that.
Don't answer that.
No.
Okay.
All right.
So yeah, that's Sweden.
What do you guys think of Sweden out there?
Let us know on our Discord server.
I'd be really interested to hear about your takes and what you disagree with us on and all that.
And Thomas, I believe you have a normal draft for us.
Yeah, I do.
I wanted to find a Sweden one, but I just couldn't.
 It's not the hotness right now, you know?
Scotland just came to digital, right?
And HME is...
I don't want to say it's new,
because it's not new,
but it's newer to a lot of people that are just picking up Nature Incarnate.
Well,
what we'll have to do is,
whenever we're talking about upcoming episodes and we have one...
 That's planned like this.
We'll say, hey, give us your France.
We'll check those out.
Give us your poor, your downtrodden, your France.
Yeah.
What we have here is a Russia.
Russia 6.
We're playing Keeper of the Forbidden Wilds.
And we have Absorb Corruption.
Domesticated Animals Go Berserk.
guardian serpents and roiling bog and snagging thorn yeah this is uh an interesting
one how do you feel about these cards in general these options for keeper or like
just general for the game i guess general for the game do you think this is a
strong set of cards or no
 Besides the Absorb Corruption, I do.
I think Absorb Corruption is, interestingly enough, somewhat strong against Russia.
But we have a Defend 5 and a Defend 4.
They are in particular locations.
And against Russia, they both add Beasts.
That's pretty cool that we are capable of doing that to avoid their loss condition
or to have more options for their Stage 2 Escalation.
 being able to just let their triple...
 triple explorer blight and being able to say, Hey, I've absorbed corruption.
I'll just gather this out.
You don't need to remove it.
Just gather it out of there can be pretty powerful by itself.
And as keeper,
you know,
the sun grass is like really meaningful and you have the excess energy a lot of the
time to be able to remove.
So all four of these are pretty viable options.
I have a moderate preference to be able to find a
zero cost on element card uh and the one that i like the least is guardian serpents
but i think these are all pretty good interesting guardian service is what i was
thinking of um yeah just because uh keeper can get a sacred site up pretty easily
in fact a lot of it's and in many places yeah um uh because you can choose two of
its growths so you can easily put down two presents uh
 And I mean, yeah, I don't know.
I'm a sucker for that card for whatever reason.
I just I really like it.
For sure.
It's also consistent beasts.
Like with no thought, you don't have to get that three moon threshold.
It's just here's a beast.
Right.
I don't think that you would be like super wrong for any of these picks,
but I do have my preference.
Is it domesticated animals?
My preference was the bog.
Right, right.
 Makes sense.
Yeah, domesticated animals I kind of ruled out just because of the targeting requirements.
I just don't know.
I don't know.
Sometimes Russia's just got a bunch of explorers and they're annoying and there's
no buildings there.
I've played a game recently where there were seven explorers into one land and no buildings.
Insane.
Yeah, like they're hitting for 14.
Sometimes you can't even target with that.
That's nuts.
 And I want to have at least the sun or the grass.
And that one's lacking both.
Who submitted this?
A buddy of mine.
Oh, okay.
He sent it to me.
Yeah, that sounds totally real and not made up.
true true no yeah um cool well uh yeah if you would like to submit a draft for us
please do in the discord especially if you have a spirit or like an adversary or
something that is just kind of not not super represented there we've been seeing a
lot of kind of similar stuff there which is totally fine but uh we like to keep it
varied here so yeah
 Well, this has been a super fun discussion.
I'm looking forward to chatting next week.
Yes, we hope you enjoyed this spirited discussion.
